# Universal design principles

## How can I influence the way a design is perceived?

## How can I help people learn from a design?

## How can I enhance the usability of a design?

## How can I increase the appeal of a design?

## How can I make better design decisions?

---

### 80/20 rule

*A high percentage of effects in any large system are caused by a low percentage of variables.*

The 80/20 rule asserts that approximately 80 percent of the effects are generated by any large system are caused by 20 percent of the variables in that system. The specific percentages are not important, as measures of actual systems indicate that the proportion varies between 10 percent and 30 percent. A few examples of the 80/20 rule includes:

- 80 percent of a product's usage involves 20 percent of its features.
- 80 percent of a town's traffic is on 20 percent of its roads.
- 80 percent of a company's revenue comes from 20 percent of its products.
- 80 percent of innovation comes from 20 percent of the people.
- 80 percent of progress comes from 20 percent of the effort.
- 80 percent of errors are caused by 20 percent of the components.

All elements in a design are not created equal. The 80/20 rule should be used to access the value of elements, target areas for redesign and optimization, and focus resources efficiently. Non-critical functions that are part of the less important 80 percent should be minimized or even removed altogether from the design.

### Accessibility

*Objects and environments should be designed 